[TW-582] doc scheduling collection runs (#4331)
postmanlabs/postman-docs: src/pages/docs/running-collections/scheduling-collection-runs-monitors.md

---
title: "Scheduling collection runs with monitors"

> updated: 2021-02-16

Reviewer: Change date

Author: Changed to 2022-10-19

contextual_links:
  - type: section
    name: "Prerequisites"
  - type: link
    name: "Using the Collection Runner"
    url: "/docs/running-collections/intro-to-collection-runs/"
  - type: section
    name: "Additional resources"
  - type: subtitle
    name: "Videos"
  - type: link
    name: "API Monitoring | The Exploratory"
    url: "https://youtu.be/tDQzY1Hn2LY"
  - type: dynamic_blog
    name: "Blog Posts"
    blog_tag: "monitors"

warning: false
---

You can automate [collection runs](/docs/running-collections/intro-to-collection-runs/) using [monitors](/docs/monitoring-your-api/intro-monitors/) to schedule runs and receive reports on your request test results.

> <!--TODO: Add language that says the scheduled collection run method is preferable. Key off marketing language or a blog post.-->

Reviewer: @malvikach let us know what language you want here. Should we be saying running with monitors is deprecated? That collection runner is preferred?

Reviewer 2: @jkonrath-postman @petewitcher Running collections with monitors are not deprecated. We have to be subtle about placing scheduled collection runs such that it implicitly suggests to user that that's preferred. We should not be doing any explicit call outs that use x vs use y. That makes it a bit more prescriptive and currently we are not taking an explicit stance on this. 
As our product evolves, we will start to make this call outs at some point.

Author: Thanks @malvikach I'll remove the comment and resolve this conversation. Note there is language in the docs that says scheduled collection runs are useful for automating testing and monitors are useful for checking performance, availability, and reliability. Let me know if that language should change.

> > Starting with version 10, you can also schedule collection runs with the [**Collection Runner**](/docs/running-collections/scheduling-collection-runs/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Starting with Postman v10, you can also schedule collection runs with the [**Collection Runner**](/docs/running-collections/scheduling-collection-runs/).
```
